this is the Vision Pro and apple doesn't
really want you to buy it almost every
tech product that has ever come out you
know that the company has first thought
what's the selling point either a key
problem that is fixing or just a clear
reason that you would want to buy one
and so almost consistently when you get
a first generation product in a new
category it's still going to have those
one or two key selling features cuz
they're necessary for it to be a success
but then it's also going to be
incredibly Rough Around the Edges
because the company has prioritized
those as opposed to making sure that all
the little granular things are right but
with the Vision Pro maybe the biggest
product in the company's entire history
I think it's kind of the opposite I mean
Apple are masters of marketing you know
how they carefully curate the sprinkle
of new features that each and every new
iPhone comes with to make sure that
you're always wanting to keep moving up
that ladder if this company wanted to
they could absolutely sell you on this
product but I don't think they're trying
to The Vision Pro released in the US
only with a
$35,000 price tag it has no real killer
app it has no Blockbuster augmented it
game and instead of those one or two key
headline features it actually focuses
instead on doing all those little things
really well the things that far fewer
people are going to notice and far fewer
people are going to buy it for why well
I think the only reason Apple has made
this product is for developers that
they're placing a bet that the future of
consumer Tech is veering towards
headsets and so by making one absolutely
banging piece of Hardware that sells
devs on this vision of the future and by
banking on the high confidence that that
people already have in Apple product
succeeding it's going to make those devs
start scurrying to build apps for this
platform potentially even making it the
default VR platform before most of its
competitors have even properly taken a
stab it that said we're now a month into
launch I've been using this for work for
play for travel and this product scares
me both in terms of its monstrous and I
mean monstrous potential but also with
its
consequences so let's start with the
good like I know that a lot of people
are saying the FaceTime is weird the way
this headset scans your face and creates
this avatar for you feels creepy and
uncanny valley and I don't completely
disagree with that but in my mind it's
not a bad thing see if you plotted a
graph of the realism of a character
against how acceptable they look you'll
get this people are completely okay with
something that's distinctly unrealistic
it actually becomes even better when
that character gets more detailed and
the animations improve but then as soon
as you hit a certain point of being
close to real but not quite we hate it
it's creepy it feels possessed and if I
had to pinpoint where the Apple Vision
Pro avatars currently sit it is around
here so as far as actually using this to
join a business meeting or FaceTime your
mom I don't think she'll be best pleased
I think she'll tell you to take that
bluming helmet off once but as a
Showcase of progress I think this is a
big deal that on this graph we've pretty
much Leap Frog all the way from here to
here this is so far ahead of even last
year's metaverse avatars that it
genuinely makes them look like a PR
Frank and yes we are at an uncomfortable
stage right now but we had to get here
at some point on the way to True realism
so why not get it over with with a us
only gen one product and also it is
really freeing now that you can actually
video call someone without needing to
get dressed up without needing to hold
anything or find a surface to prop your
phone up with and knowing that they can
hear you with genuinely studio quality
audio it sounds better than this mic
here and see you front and center at all
times it's meant that I've been able to
talk to people while cooking while
packing bags while walking on the street
and I feel the same way about this whole
eyesight feature you know the way that
other people can see your eyes through
the headset right now it does not
achieve its objective of making it less
socially awkward to film in front of
people I'm wearing one of these around
London on planes in Ubers coffee shops I
have never had as much side eye in my
entire life you can tell that every
single person you walk past is trying
their absolute hardest to not turn and
stare at you but also that that's
exactly what they want to do I've had
people call me all sorts of things like
take off that headset you I'll let you
fill in the blanks but the point is
right now you look like a donut wearing
this in public and that's probably
partly because the eyes need to be
brighter and the outer plastic area gets
lots of Reflections but I do think that
the main thing is just the fact that
it's new the idea of this is not
currently considered acceptable but as
an actual concept I do think that
eyesight is a super intelligent solution
to the problem of others being
completely unaware of what you're
looking at like yeah it's kind of a
waste of battery and yeah you could just
stick some LEDs on the outside a green
one to let people know that you can see
them and a red one to let them know
you're recording but this does at least
make those interactions feel a little
bit more humanlike at least you know as
much as they can when you've got a 200
in screen between
you now at its core the Apple Vision Pro
is a virtual reality headset it's not
dissimilar to products like The Meta
Quest but for me at least it does do
more of the fundamentals right than
anyone else it's cushioned but Airy it
doesn't get clammmy or sweaty yes the
headset is heavy and I do think Apple
should have added in the option for some
sort of rigid strap like basically every
VR headset comes with just to take off
some of the clamping force from the
front of your face and yes if you pay
attention to it you of course can tell
that this whole pass through thing is a
video feed that you're watching as
opposed to your real eyes seeing the
real world with the motion blur and the
Grain and the occasional sign flickering
and the dynamic range and of course the
headset's camera stabilization being as
good as the stabilization of your own
eyes but no one has done it better than
this the resolution the latency the
color signs so much workers have to go
into this and it's a lot harder than it
seems It's like shooting a video all the
time but with higher Stakes because all
of a sudden you can't have sudden
changes in exposure the perspective has
to match that of your eyes there needs
to be none of the Distortion that you
would normally get with wide camera
lenses like this and also there can't be
a delay between when things happen and
when you see them and Apple has done all
of those things in a proficient enough
way that in most lighting conditions
your brain can just tune it out and
genuinely convince yourself of the
illusion that you are placing digital
objects into your real world and that is
a massive achievement and that is
complimented by the fact that the user
interface is beautiful icons for example
are completely flat until you look at
them and then the various different
layers separate and you get depth
there's no dark or light mode it is all
about glass here which makes it even
more immersive because you're seeing
bits of your room or your sky or your
scene behind your apps oh and the
Shadows I love the Shadows how the
windows cast a little bit of Darkness on
the floor how letters cast Darkness on
your walls and the Hand occlusion is
absolutely phenomenal most headsets like
this they can place objects within the
room that you're sitting in but that
illusion breaks the second you lift your
hands up cuz your hands will appear
behind the window that the headset is
trying to make you think is sitting 3 m
from your face but this scans your hands
in real time at all times such that
anytime you Eclipse a window it cuts out
a little bit of that window around your
hands so that your hands still appear
like they're in front it isn't perfect
but it's good enough so that as long as
you're not staring at your hands the
illusion is maintained using the Apple
Vision Pro is kind of like that pipe
dream we've always had of using
transparent phones all the perks of that
how unbelievably cool it feels but none
of the cons like the fact that you can't
see your apps properly or Reflections
interfering with everything oh and the
interaction model the way that your eyes
are used to highlight things in your
hands to select them I think this is
going to get copied a lot I think it's
going to become the industry standard so
quickly that in a few years time it will
just be well of course this is how
headsets work and while of course the
idea of big tech companies monitoring
your eye movements is particularly scary
it feels like apple has well addressed
this issue essentially the ey tracking
happens on one layer of software that
exists completely on device so let's say
you're on Tik Tok and you're looking
around Tik Tok does not see these hover
effects they do not see the room you're
sitting in and there's no way for them
to access your persona all that stuff
runs offline and your Vision Pro only
tells the app the minimum amount it
needs to know how to function and I got
to say darting around your headset with
your eyes like this and manipulating a
room with a pinch of your fingers when
it works it's pure Wizardry yes there's
work to be done on it and I still do
personally find it a bit less satisfying
than a phone screen partly because your
phone's inputs are detected more
accurately and partly because just
hitting something physical it gives you
something back as opposed to tapping and
prodding and poking stuff in midair but
the skeleton is in place in one go I
think app has already set the precedent
for the future now I've had some pretty
major issues trying to use the Vision
Pro for work I'm getting to that but one
thing is undeniable the media experience
you can get from this is oh my goodness
part of it is the screens on the inside
they're crisp the blacks are really
black the colors are vivid and the
brightness is super high all of that
matters but it's much more than that for
those of you who haven't managed to put
one of these on yet let me describe it
to you imagine you're in your living
room you're sipping a cup of tea and
you're reading a a book and you decide
you know I fancy watching something
right now so you put your Vision Pro on
you drag in a high-end OLED TV screen to
whichever angle you find the most
comfortable yes even lying down looking
directly up you make that screen as big
as you want like literally 200 in if
you're into that and you hit play you
want to darken your surroundings you
don't need to go find a light switch
your headset can do it you want to
change of scenery you turn this dial and
you phase in the surface of the Moon or
literally any seat of your choosing
within a cinema and maybe the most
underrated aspect of the whole thing is
the 3D because each of your eyes here
has its own screen any 3D movie this can
create that effect and the way this
thing represents that 3D content is it
hands down the best experience I've ever
had if I could pick between watching
movies on this or going to the cinema on
my own and wearing those cheap glasses
that darken and already not that bright
projector even if I was getting paid to
go to the cinema I would pick the Vision
Pro if you're on a flight in a cramped
economy cabin put some good earphones in
your ears put this on your face and you
can genuinely Escape it's probably
actually only a matter of time before
someone makes an app that allows you to
literally escape to a first class cabin
but whatever digital location you choose
whether it's a desert or a United States
national park you genuinely feel like
you are in your own world your own world
where there isn't a chance that anyone
around you can see anything you're
watching which is kind of weird at first
when you're typing in passwords and you
see that it's not censoring anything but
the power of this product is it's as if
you could pick up your high-end 80-in TV
your Apple TV box your surround sound
system and you could pack them into your
ruck sack and be able to take them out
at any time you want without worrying
about plugging them in or positioning
them that's how powerful and unique a
proposition this is I also thought the
cameras are pretty interesting like how
good is this versus an iPhone well not
quite as good which is a little sad
since the Vision Pro has both more space
and a higher price bracket but I guess
it just wasn't Apple's priority here
it's different its photos are
significantly worse than iPhone photos
and its videos are slightly worse but
there is something very easy about
taking a vision pro video the fact that
it's always ready to record the fact
that it's carried by your face so both
your hands are free and the spatial
aspect every photo and video you take on
this has automatic depth it's kind of
like portrait mode but instead of being
compressed into a flat 2D image you can
actually experience that depth not a
mind-blowing camera but a cool one and
finally the apps considering how new of
a platform this is I've actually been
quite surprised by both how many apps
there are that are well optimized for it
and also how quickly they get ated it
feels like every time I boot the thing
up there is something new to explore you
can DJ and mash up songs you can look at
and take apart fully to scale 3D models
you can play augmented reality games
there's no one killer app or feature and
there are some very notable gaps too
like an augmented reality Maps app or
some kind of Blockbuster immersive game
but this is such a strong base to build
on that my mind is already spinning at
what something like this could be
capable of in just a few years it very
much reminds me of you know when the
first iPhone launch how Steve Jobs got
on stage and he talked about how they
were launching three groundbreaking
things and then that all of those three
things were actually just one thing this
is that all over again it's like a dozen
incredible new technologies all
happening in one product the key
difference being that now instead of
apps running in two Dimensions they're
running in three dimensions fully taking
into account the space that operating
them in like you know that phone app
that plants a tree every time you stick
to your work goals well what if that
tree gets planted and grows in real time
on your actual desk or like Pokmon go
all of a sudden that original trailer
for it you know the one that looked like
pure science fiction that is actually
possible now I don't know about you but
that well that would get me off the sofa
and if you're enjoying this video then a
sub to the channel would be the
awesome but it's not without issues so
let's go from the smallest to the
biggest one of the first things you'll
notice is the app situation while like I
just said there are lots of great ones
there's no Netflix there's no Spotify
there's no YouTube we're talking apps so
ubiquitous that they're like the first
things you would think to install on any
new machine if they're not already
pre-installed but here it's not just
that you're not getting customade Vision
Pro apps these companies seem to have
specifically decided to not even allow
you to use the iPad versions of their
apps which is the default for Vision Pro
and yeah you can use the website but
then you can't download your movies or
songs like you can on the apps which
pretty much renders Your Vision Pro
useless while traveling unless you
primarily use Apple TV that is and that
actually leads me on to my second
concern it's not a secret that Apple are
the masters of lockin they don't just
want you to use their phone they want
you to have their watch their home
speaker their Mac Pro wheels and they
are the best company in the world at
achieving that Apple ties each one of
their products together so seamlessly
and at the same time basically ignores
the existence of competing products
which when you combine those two things
together creates the Apple Universe a
universe in which you use your Apple
airdrop to send files and you watch your
Apple TV shows and you use apple
shareplay and FaceTime to connect with
your friends everything just works and
you feel like you're living in an apple
commercial until either you or someone
Close to You tries to use something
that's not apple and then it all breaks
down and there's been a couple of times
while using this Vision Pro where I have
felt like I'm not sure I want that on my
face face because when you put this
thing on it's a lot more than just using
another Apple product your vision in the
most literal sense possible becomes
Apple's Vision you see what Apple has
decided you see I noticed this for the
first time when I was watching something
on Disney plus and I wanted to send what
I was looking at to drisha the Apple
Vision Pro blocked me from doing that
you try and record a quick clip of your
scene and it blacks out the show and I
understand why like the same reason you
can't screen record a TV show on your
phone for piracy reasons but this is my
vision there's something that feels
incredibly intrusive about companies
deciding what you can and can't do with
your eyes like if I was watching a movie
in my living room on my own TV and I
want to pull out my phone to record a
quick clip of that scene it might be
frowned upon by Netflix but I can still
do that but all of a sudden on this
being told that I can't that I have no
choice I just felt my first twinge of
that dystopian future that a lot of
people fear one where companies are the
ones in charge of your free will and you
notice this apple level of control in
lots of other areas too like this thing
refuses to let you both screen record or
take video when you're in low light why
not just try like I can see the view
from my headset and I think it looks
fine but Apple doesn't want you to and
the only reason I can think of is that
they don't think it would be a good
enough looking video and it may poorly
represent the Apple Vision Pro online
but that's on me if it's a poor looking
video I should be able to make that
decision the fact that the thing is
portless apart from the power connector
so if you want to send files to anything
Wireless oh and what's the easiest and
best way to wirelessly send those files
to anything Apple airdrop got it you
want to video call your Android buddies
there's no WhatsApp app I mean yeah you
could set up a zoom meeting but really
this is designed for FaceTime and you
know that absolutely awesome ability to
sit yourself in an actual Cinema and
pick your seat from everything I can see
that's for Apple TV content only and
there's absolutely no reason why that
needed to to be the case why not enable
this feature for all content I'd love to
watch my YouTube videos that way too
instead of in Safari what I'm saying is
that there's no one thing that's
outwardly wrong here it's just there are
definitely the classic undertones of
things being built for the Apple users
as opposed to things being built to be
the best no matter what app you're using
and as someone who has just recently
switched over to a Samsung phone I
definitely feel like I am at the butt of
that joke but even more bothersome than
that is that the Vision Pro is is not
particularly great for work at least not
my work while it is very cool that you
can mirror your laptop's display and
make it bigger and place it anywhere and
it's extremely thoughtless in how you
start the feature if you just stare at
your laptop screen and hit connect it
doesn't really add anything it's not
like my Mac suddenly enters the virtual
realm and I can start interacting with
Final Cut Pro through my headset it's
just a screen within a screen you can't
suddenly add in multiple monitors or
turn your existing monitor into an ultra
wide so can't have my video editor open
on one screen here and then the preview
window over here which would be a value
ad and working in this is not higher
resolution either you still get a better
resolution out of a good quality Monitor
and yeah you could say good quality
monitors are expensive but if you can
afford one of these you can definitely
afford one of those when I'm scripting
while your MacBook screen does reappear
within the headset your keyboard does
not so it's very hard to read meaning
that unless you're an aade touch typer
write it is about to get significantly
slower and that's not even factoring in
the slightly more fundamental issue that
in most computers your input device is
independent of where you're looking like
most people don't look at the mouse for
example your hands just do it whereas
here because the entire system
navigation is your eyes while sometimes
it can be way less effort sometimes it
can be a lot more there are times where
it feels like your mind is being red
where like you're typing something and
you think of the letters you're trying
to type and as you do that your eyes
naturally move to those letters and the
vision just knows and it feels like
magic but at the same time I think we
naturally as humans we're always
thinking of the next thing so you will
notice that by default your eyes will
want to move onto something else as
you're entering the last digit of your
PIN for example that is not really going
to fly here because the Vision Pro
requires you to be looking exactly at
that input which leads to all sorts of
weird situations where let's say you're
deleting a bunch of text or trying to
click the undo button many times if you
try and look up at the text that's being
selected Your Vision Pro is no longer
selecting the delete key and so often
times you will just stop deleting
there's actually a whole load of small
Kinks like this that clearly do need to
be figured out in the second gen like
trying to drink The Vision Pro camera's
point of view is not quite the same as
that of your eyes so sometimes you miss
your mouth you get a notification on
your phone and you want to check it well
tough cameras don't Focus nearly as
close as your eyes can so I guarantee it
will be a strain the field of view is a
little a little smaller than you'd
expect so you don't get the full
peripheral vision that you're used to
there's a fair bit of sound leakage so
while you do have complete privacy with
what you're seeing everyone in the room
will hear it which is especially amusing
for a headset like this since it's the
only thing they can experience don't get
me wrong the hardware is incredible it's
better than anything I've used before
but it's just when you try and put
something on your face like this
naturally it's competing with your eyes
and that it still isn't quite up to
scratch with and that leads me onto to I
would say the biggest barrier towards
this hitting
mainstream it's kind of lonely in here
and that's not to say that shared
experiences don't exist like if I'm
FaceTiming a friend and I have them on
one side and then a movie that we're
both watching at the same time using
share play over here it is actually the
best experience I've ever had catching
up with people long distance but it's
the people who are right in front of you
who feel it every time I hand The Vision
Pro to someone to test it genuinely
feels like they've disappeared into
their own World they'll be standing and
prodding the air not really paying
attention to you or even able to hear
you properly and yeah the whole pass
through thing exists the person is
somewhat aware of the room and who's in
it but you know they may well have
literally planted a screen in front of
your face talking to someone wearing one
of these feels a lot like talking to
someone who's doing this and that's if
you can actually get it to work with
other people when you order a Vision Pro
there's a very Advanced fitting process
that makes it essentially custom made
for you this is why you almost
definitely should not try an import one
if you live outside the US because you
likely won't get it fitted properly but
anyway for me the one I have it fits
great and the light seal and the eye
tracking Works incredibly but I haven't
had a single smooth handoff every single
time I take this thing off to hand to
someone else to try there's always some
sort of issue that crops up whether it's
because their eyes are further apart on
their head or they normally wear glasses
or the strap won't tighten enough for
the size of their head it's so
cumbersome to actually show people
things that after for a while you just
don't bother and that's a little sad now
that isn't specific to the Apple Vision
Pro it's the same with all headsets but
I would say that that is why even though
we've already had multiple VR
revolutions over the last few decades
none of them have stuck so far it's
always been an incredible party trick
it's always blown everyone away when
they first try it but then it gets
forgotten again when people realize that
they can't use it to connect with the
people who are close to them so if Apple
really does want it to stick this time
around that is the key problem they're
going to need to solve and you can tell
they're trying okay I do also worry
about what Apple Vision Pro and products
like it are going to do to our attention
bans I don't think it's really an issue
in the state that the thing is in now
since it's going to be a few people
using it for a few hours a day mostly
for quite specific specialized tasks but
bigger picture it could well be I mean I
see it in myself when I have periods of
spending lots of time with my tech like
all day scripting on the laptop or
gaming on the couch music while in the
gym filling every little gap of time
with a quick video to watch I feel
incredibly on edge I feel antsy and I
think it's because my body is used to
persistent dopamine hits and it just
wants them to keep coming and that is
not good for you it's counterintuitive
but too much stimulation can quite
easily lead to a persistent feeling of
stress and I've actually a couple of
times started to get physical symptoms
from that and the only thing that has
ever helped me is to lock my phone away
in a box for a few days and completely
forget it exists I always think back to
a quote I read over 10 years ago that
boredom is the precursor to creativity I
think it's actually really healthy to be
bored once in a while because it's what
grounds you but this I think this is the
opposite of that this is anything you
want in the entire world brought to you
and being able to experience that in the
biggest way possible this is effectively
an anti-boredom device so what's my
overall Take On The Vision Pro well I
think it's very exciting it's slightly
scary and no one really needs one I've
also seen a lot of comparisons being
drawn to this meta Quest 3 which people
are rightfully saying does a lot of what
this does in fact honestly features wise
this is more and the price difference is
wild
3,499
499 but they are two very different
propositions like The Meta is great for
gaming it's got a more mature ecosystem
the hardware is basically subsidized
because meta wants it to be a mass
Market product apple does not I think
the Vision Pro is one day aiming to
directly replace your computer it's it's
more powerful than the meta the screens
are sharper and more contrasty this
whole Outer display thing it's trying to
make it a more socially acceptable
lifestyle product but it's also pretty
clear that Apple knows that that time
isn't now and they know that the best
thing this can possibly be in its
current form is just a high-end Tech
demo that excites the people that they
need to excite but it does that pretty
well one more thing about the Vision Pro
is that it has made me more so than ever
glad that I have a surf shark PN
subscription I've been using this in all
sorts of places around the world
connected to varying degrees of Wi-Fi
trustworthiness and so knowing that I
can have a consistent internet
experience that I can watch the TV shows
that I want to watch that I can browse
not just privately in this but also
securely anywhere is a big deal and surf
shark in particular is much more than
just a VPN it can mock your GPS location
as well as your internet traffic so
let's say you're playing Pokmon go and
you want to catch a Pokmon in Japan you
can now do that from your bedroom and
Save yourself about $11,000 in flights
it has a kill switch which means if you
want to make sure that you're secure at
all times you can set it up so that
anytime your VPN connection drops it
automatically Cuts your internet
connection and honestly like a thousand
more features finished off by the fact
that with the code boss it's less than
$3 a month for an unlimited number of
accounts with three extra months for
free and a 30-day money back guarantee